docs: clustering best practices (#3197)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/get-started/clustering.md

- [`prometheus.operator.podmonitors`][prometheus.operator.podmonitors]
- [`prometheus.operator.servicemonitors`][prometheus.operator.servicemonitors]

> ## Best practices
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Best practices

Follow these guidelines to optimize clustering performance and resource utilization in your deployment.

```

### Avoid issues with disproportionately large targets

> When your environment has a mix of very large and average-sized targets, avoid running too cluster many instances. While clustering generally does a good job of sharding targets to achieve balanced workload distribution, significant target size disparity can lead to uneven load distribution. When you have a few disproportionately large targets among many instances, the nodes assigned these large targets will experience much higher load compard to others (e.g. samples/second in case of Prometheus metrics), potentially causing uneven load balancing or hitting resource limitations. In these scenarios, it's often better to scale vertically rather than horizontally to reduce the impact of outlier large targets. This approach ensures more consistent resource utilization across your deployment and prevents overloading specific instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your environment has a mix of very large and average-sized targets, avoid running too many instances in a cluster.
While clustering generally does a good job of sharding targets to achieve balanced workload distribution, significant target size disparity can lead to uneven load distribution.
When you have a few disproportionately large targets among many instances, the nodes assigned these large targets experience much higher load compared to others, for example samples/second with Prometheus metrics.
This can potentially cause uneven load balancing or hit resource limitations.
In these scenarios, it's often better to scale vertically rather than horizontally to reduce the impact of outlier large targets.
This approach ensures more consistent resource utilization across your deployment and prevents overloading specific instances.
```

> ### Use `--cluster.wait-for-size`, but with caution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use `--cluster.wait-for-size`
```

I'd reduce this heading and remove the "with caution" part. If we need to be more cautionary, we should add it within the body of this section.

> When using clustering in a deployment where a single instance cannot handle the entire load, it's recommended to use the `--cluster.wait-for-size` flag to ensure a minimum cluster size before accepting traffic. However, leave a significant safety margin when configuring this value by setting it significantly smaller than your typical expected operational number of instances. When this condition is not met, the instances will completely stop processing traffic in cluster-enabled components so it's important to leave room for any unexpected events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using clustering in a deployment where a single instance cannot handle the entire load, we recommend that you use the `--cluster.wait-for-size` flag to ensure a minimum cluster size before accepting traffic.
However, leave a significant safety margin when configuring this value by setting it significantly smaller than your typical expected operational number of instances.
When this condition is not met, the instances will completely stop processing traffic in cluster-enabled components, so it's important to leave room for any unexpected events.
```

> For example, if you're using Horizontal Pod Autoscalers (HPA) or PodDisruptionBudgets (PDB) in Kubernetes, ensure that the `--cluster.wait-for-size` flag is set to a value well below what your HPA and PDB minimums allow. This prevents traffic from stopping when Kubernetes instance counts temporarily drop below these thresholds during normal operations like pod termination or rolling updates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you're using Horizontal Pod Autoscalers (HPA) or PodDisruptionBudgets (PDB) in Kubernetes, ensure that the `--cluster.wait-for-size` flag is set to a value well below what your HPA and PDB minimums allow.
This prevents traffic from stopping when Kubernetes instance counts temporarily drop below these thresholds during normal operations like pod termination or rolling updates.
```

> We recommend to use the `--cluster.wait-timeout` flag to set a reasonable timeout for the waiting period to limit the impact of potential misconfiguration. The appropriate timeout duration should be based on how quickly you expect your orchestration or incident response team to provision required number of instances. Be aware that when timeout passes the cluster may be too small to handle traffic and run into further issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using the `--cluster.wait-timeout` flag to set a reasonable timeout for the waiting period to limit the impact of potential misconfiguration.
The appropriate timeout duration should be based on how quickly you expect your orchestration or incident response team to provision the required number of instances.
Be aware that when the timeout passes, the cluster may be too small to handle traffic and run into further issues.
```

> ### Do not enable clustering when you don't need it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Don't enable clustering when you don't need it
```

> While clustering scales to very large numbers of instances, it introduces additional overhead in the form of logs, metrics, potential alerts, and processing requirements. If you're not using components that specifically support and benefit from clustering, it's best to not enable clustering at all. A particularly common mistake is enabling clustering on logs collecting DaemonSets. Collecting logs from mounted node's pod logs does not benefit from having clustering enabled since each instance typically collects logs only from its own node. In such cases, enabling clustering only adds unnecessary complexity and resource usage without providing functional benefits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While clustering scales to very large numbers of instances, it introduces additional overhead in the form of logs, metrics, potential alerts, and processing requirements.
If you're not using components that specifically support and benefit from clustering, it's best to not enable clustering at all.
A particularly common mistake is enabling clustering on log-collecting DaemonSets.
Collecting logs from Pod logs in mounted nodes doesn't benefit from having clustering enabled since each instance typically collects logs only from its own node.
In such cases, enabling clustering only adds unnecessary complexity and resource usage without providing functional benefits.
```

When you have a few disproportionately large targets among many instances, the nodes assigned these large targets experience much higher load compared to others, for example samples/second with Prometheus metrics.
This can potentially cause uneven load balancing or hit resource limitations.
In these scenarios, it's often better to scale vertically rather than horizontally to reduce the impact of outlier large targets.
This approach ensures more consistent resource utilization across your deployment and prevents overloading specific instances.

### Use `--cluster.wait-for-size`

When using clustering in a deployment where a single instance cannot handle the entire load, we recommend that you use the `--cluster.wait-for-size` flag to ensure a minimum cluster size before accepting traffic.
However, leave a significant safety margin when configuring this value by setting it significantly smaller than your typical expected operational number of instances.
When this condition is not met, the instances will completely stop processing traffic in cluster-enabled components, so it's important to leave room for any unexpected events.

> For example, if you're using Horizontal Pod Autoscalers (HPA) or PodDisruptionBudgets (PDB) in Kubernetes, ensure that the `--cluster.wait-for-size` flag is set to a value well below what your HPA and PDB minimums allow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you use Horizontal Pod Autoscalers (HPA) or PodDisruptionBudgets (PDB) in Kubernetes, set the `--cluster.wait-for-size` flag well below what your HPA and PDB minimums allow.
```

> This prevents traffic from stopping when Kubernetes instance counts temporarily drop below these thresholds during normal operations like pod termination or rolling updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This prevents traffic from stopping when Kubernetes instance counts temporarily drop below these thresholds during normal operations like Pod termination or rolling updates.
```

> We recommend using the `--cluster.wait-timeout` flag to set a reasonable timeout for the waiting period to limit the impact of potential misconfiguration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using the `--cluster.wait-timeout` flag to set a reasonable timeout for the waiting period.
This limits the impact of potential misconfiguration.
```

> The appropriate timeout duration should be based on how quickly you expect your orchestration or incident response team to provision the required number of instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Base the timeout duration on how quickly your orchestration or incident response team can provision the required number of instances.
```

Be aware that when the timeout passes, the cluster may be too small to handle traffic and run into further issues.

### Don't enable clustering when you don't need it

> While clustering scales to very large numbers of instances, it introduces additional overhead in the form of logs, metrics, potential alerts, and processing requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While clustering scales to very large numbers of instances, it introduces additional overhead.
This overhead includes logs, metrics, potential alerts, and processing requirements.
```

> If you're not using components that specifically support and benefit from clustering, it's best to not enable clustering at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're not using components that specifically support and benefit from clustering, don't enable clustering.
```

> A particularly common mistake is enabling clustering on log-collecting DaemonSets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common mistake is enabling clustering on log-collecting DaemonSets.
```

> Collecting logs from Pod logs in mounted nodes doesn't benefit from having clustering enabled since each instance typically collects logs only from its own node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collecting logs from Pod logs in mounted nodes doesn't benefit from clustering since each instance typically collects logs only from its own node.
```

> In such cases, enabling clustering only adds unnecessary complexity and resource usage without providing functional benefits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In such cases, enabling clustering adds unnecessary complexity and resource usage without providing functional benefits.
```
